# Core-Bitcoin Network Simulator for Performance Evaluation using Lightweight Virtualization

Core-Bitcoin simulator is built on Docker technology to generate local Bitcoin network. This tool is designed to test and assess the impact of any modifications to the original Bitcoin reference implementation. Moreover it allows evaluating Bitcoin network performance under different realistic network conditions. The simulator can also help people who are new to Bitcoin bloockchain to understand it's key components, by interacting with the command line interface of each Bitcoin node. 

Although Bitcoin reference implementation provides by default two versions of the main blockchain called Testnet and Regtest for research and learning purposes. Yet none of them support constructing an efficient local Bitcoin network. Testnet blockchain is a public network and its current mining difficulty level is already high due to the huge usage by researchers which limits the number of mining nodes that can host. Also the public setup of the testnet blockchain does not allow changing the network's parameters which limits its usability. The Regtest blockchain is a local Bitcoin blockchain however it does not support automatic mining functionality, where generating new blocks require sening "generate" command manually to each node.

To overcome all of the mentioned limitations, We have designed our simulator to seamlessly construct a local Bitcoin network that can be parametrized to fulfil the user's goals. It manly provides the following configuration parameters:

- Network size (number of nodes).
- Hashing-power of each individual node (mining capabilities).
- Delay on the egress traffic of each node.
- Delay jitter with Normal/Pareto distribution on each node.
- Simulation time.

The following reports are generated by the simulator during and at the end of the simulation:

- Number of generated blocks per node. 
- Number of blocks committed to the main chain per node.
- Number of valid forks each node witnessed during the simulation.  
- Nodes with the highest and lowest number of mined blocks.
- Amount of spendable balance of each node. 
- Total network hashrate. 
- Plots of the calculated values.  


## Getting Started

Steps to make your first local Bitcoin testing network up and running on your local machine.

#### Clone the repository to your host machine:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/noureddinel/core-bitcoin-net-simulator
```

### Change the working directory:

```
$ cd core-bitcoin-net-simulator/
```

### Prerequisites

The following tools and packages must be installed in the machine:

- Docker * [Docker](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/how-to-install-docker-on-ubuntu-18-04) - To install Docker sucessfuly follow this link
- Docker-compose * [Docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)- To install Docker-compose sucessfuly follow this link
- pumba
- matplotlib
- statstics
- python-tk

```
$ python Prerequisites.py 
```

### Tutorial for setting up a multi-nodes local bitcion network  

Step 1: Open ports 10345,12342,12343,12344,12345,12346 on your host machine using the following command

```
sudo ufw allow 10345,12342,12343,12344,12345,12346/tcp
```

Step 2: generating a local Bitcoin test network

```
$ python localtestnet.py
```

Note:
- If you are generating the network for the first time, it will take more time for docker setup.


Step 3: checking the docker continers' state

```
$ docker ps
```

Step 4: generating and view a performance report

```
$ python getperformance.py
```

Step 4: stopping network's miners

```
$ python stopminers.py

```

Step 5: teardown the setup 

```
$ python teardown.py
```

## Authors

* **Lina Alsahan** - *lialsahan@hbku.edu.qa* 
* **Noureddine Lasla** - *nlasla@hbku.edu.qa* 
* **Mohamed Abdallah** - *moabdallah@hbku.edu.qa*

## Conference paper
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2002.01243.pdf

